# AssignResource

**Category:** Apriso/Common/Resource
**Class:** `FlexNet.BusinessFacade.Common.ResourceAssigner`
**Assembly:** `FlexNet.BusinessFacade.Common.dll`
**Status:** Active

## Description

This Business Component is used to assign a Resource to or unassign a Resource from an order (ORDER_HEADER) or an order line ( ORDER_DETAIL). Based on the Inputs, the Resource can be linked to the order, unlinked, or linked exclusively.

## Parameters

| IO | Name | Type | Required | Description |
|----|------|------|----------|-------------|
| Input | orderNo | Char | Yes | The order number. |
| Input | orderLineNo | Integer | No | The order line number. |
| Input | orderType | Integer | Yes | The order type. |
| Input | resourceName | Char | Yes | The Resource to assign or unassign. |
| Input | resourceType | Integer | Yes | The Resource type. |
| Input | assign | Boolean | Yes | The flag to indicate assign or unassign. |
| Input | exclusive | Boolean | No | The flag to set exclusivity. |

## Validations

- The system validates that the order/order line exists. 
- The system validates that the inputted Resource is not exclusively assigned to another order before assigning it to the inputted order.

## System Processing

- The system retrieves ORDER_HEADER or ORDER_DETAIL based on the Inputs and validates that it exists. 
 
- If orderNo and orderType are populated, then the system retrieves ORDER_HEADER. 
- If orderNo, orderType and orderLineNo are populated, then the system retrieves ORDER_DETAIL. 
- Otherwise, the system returns an error. 
 
- If the inputted Assign flag is 0, the system retrieves the corresponding record in ORDER_RESOURCE and deletes it (the system returns an error if the record is not found). 
- If the inputted Assign flag is set to 1, then the system does the following: 
 
- If the exclusive Input is set: 
 
- If the Resource is non-exclusively assigned to any order or order line, the system returns an error. 
- If the order line is inputted, the system validates that the Resource is either exclusively assigned to its parent order or not exclusively assigned to any order or line. 
- The system then inserts a record in the ORDER_RESOURCE table for the given Resource and order/order line with the ExclusiveAllocation field set to true. 
 
- If the exclusive Input is not set: 
 
- The system validates that there are no exclusive assignments for the inputted Resource. If there are, the system returns an error. 
- The system then inputs a record in the ORDER_RESOURCE table for the given Resource and order/order line with the ExclusiveAllocation field set to false.

## Pre-Conditions

An order/order line must exist. A Resource/Resource type must exist.

## Impacted Tables

| Table | Field | BC Param |
|-------|-------|----------|
| ORDER_RESOURCE | ID | The unique identifier generated by the system. |
|  | OrderNo | The inputted orderNo. |
|  | OrderType | The inputted orderType. |
|  | OrderLineNo | The inputted orderLineNo. |
|  | ResourceName | The inputted resourceName. |
|  | ResourceType | The inputted resourceType. |
|  | ExclusiveAllocation | The inputted exclusive flag. |
